db/README.md, before:

## the NSW db

this database has 5 tables.

Post, PostCategory, PostalCode, User, LabelText.

It uses stored procedures for all CUD operations

Read operations are plain text with interpolated strings. (ripe for SQL injection), however no user input is ever accepted into read operation strings. identifiers only. Since this is now a WebApi and not a WebForms solution, it is easier for user input to make it to the database level, so parameterized queries should be employed for new read operations and a ticket will be created to convert current read operations to this.

A BaseRepository method was created to accept a string from another repository layer method and do the work of querying the database.

this database is very basic. it could use a lot of work which could improve the health of the application.

**/data**
the database docker container is mounted to this folder and puts the SQL Server database files here. the master and other databases are in here as well as the IDP Database when running on a localhost docker-compose container.

Commit message:

add db status check loop output description

db/README.md, after:

## the NSW db

this database has 5 tables.

Post, PostCategory, PostalCode, User, LabelText.

It uses stored procedures for all CUD operations

Read operations are plain text with interpolated strings. (ripe for SQL injection), however no user input is ever accepted into read operation strings. identifiers only. Since this is now a WebApi and not a WebForms solution, it is easier for user input to make it to the database level, so parameterized queries should be employed for new read operations and a ticket will be created to convert current read operations to this.

A BaseRepository method was created to accept a string from another repository layer method and do the work of querying the database.

this database is very basic. it could use a lot of work which could improve the health of the application.

**/data**
the database docker container is mounted to this folder and puts the SQL Server database files here. the master and other databases are in here as well as the IDP Database when running on a localhost docker-compose container. This persists the databases between compose runs.

### Docker

when booting the database container in docker, you will see "errors", they are normal. There is a script that runs in a loop, checking to see if the database is up and running or not. if the db server application is not started, this script will error, which is caught, and the loop starts again.

it's output will be similar to the following

```
db-1     | Sqlcmd: Error: Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server : Login timeout expired.
db-1     | Sqlcmd: Error: Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server : TCP Provider: Error code 0x2749.
db-1     | Sqlcmd: Error: Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server : A network-related or instance-specific error has occurred while establishing a connection to SQL Server. Server is not found or not accessible. Check if instance name is correct and if SQL Server is configured to allow remote connections. For more information see SQL Server Books Online..
dbstatus:
db-1     | errcode: 1
```

this is normal.
sometimes the `dbstatus` line will report a number, this is normal also. when the server is up and running, you may see the following

```
dbstatus:           0
db-1     | errcode: 0
db-1     | checking for and maybe installing project databases
db-1     | idsrvconfg:          1
db-1     | nswData:          1
```

this means that the two required databases for this application are installed on the server. If either is a 0, it will run a script automatyically that installs the database(s) on the db container's sql server instance. the database files are in a docker volume, which exists on the host, and therefore will persist between startups.
